I performed a selection of the most relevant features for the prediction of traffic accident severity.

The features of the dataset resulting are the following:

In the characteristics dataset, I will keep the features: "lighting", "localisation"(agg), "type of intersection", "atmospheric conditions", "type of collisions", "department", "adress", "time" and the coordinates. I added two new features from this original dataset: "date" and "weekend" indicating if the accident occurred during the weekend or not.

In the places dataset, I will keep only the features: "road categorie", "traffic regime", "number of traffic lanes", "road profile", "road shape", "surface condition", "situation", "school nearby" and "infrastructure".

From the users dataset, I have created the following features:

num_us: total number of users involved in the accident.
ped: Wether there are pedestrians involved or not.
critic_age: If there is any user in between 17 and 31 y.o.
sev : maximum gravity suffered by any user involved in the accident:
0 = Unscathered or Light injury
1 = Hospitalized wonded or Death
I used the holiday dataset to craft a new feature indicating the accident accurred during a holiday.

In [1]:
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import seaborn as sns

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

import datetime as dt

import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')
Data Cleaning
Before starting to run any ML algorithm on the data, the data have to go through the preprocessing part. In this part, data will be cleaned so there is no missing or unusual value. The goal is that the data is the best possible before applying the algorithms.

Importing Data
In [2]:
df = pd.read_csv('Data.csv', index_col=0)
df.head(10)
EDA
This section is aiming to gain a better understanding of the data summarizing the main characteristics as well as uncovering importan relationships of the features with the severity of an accident.

Target: Severity
The data is almost evenly distributed on both high and low severity accidents.

The data preparation consists on the normalization and the train/test/validation split. Also the models I will use to predict the severity of an accident do not handel categorical variables so date some features will be dropped for now.
